[DOCS-5639] SVG migration blog post (#5201)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2022/06/2022-6-15-svg-icon-migration.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "SVG icon migration (breaking changes!)"
tags:
- svg-migration
- community
- ux
author: kmartens27
description: >
  Starting with Jenkins 2.333, Jenkins core has migrated from `GIF` and `PNG` icons to `SVG` icons.
---

== Summary

Beginning with Jenkins v2.333 (released on June 15, 2022), Jenkins core has upgraded from `GIF` and `PNG` icons to `SVG` icons.
Plugins that will be affected by this change are tracked in a link:https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PxlgT11_uDyTzPch8zWn3PDxLUIAab21ILmJ17zCzBk/edit#gid=1308179162[spreadsheet] found in link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-68251[JENKINS-68251].
Plugins that do not interact with icons are unaffected by this change.

> == Motivation

Reviewer: I think you can call this whatever you want, but I would consider calling this "Rationale" or "Explanation". Motivation is just fine though. Consider this food for thought.

Author: ```suggestion
== Background

```

Author: Thanks @cari-mason that makes sense, I've changed it to Background to make a bit more sense!

Updating the Jenkins icons to these previously uploaded SVG icons provides users with a more consistent experience.
SVG formatting also preserves the image quality during compression, ensuring that icons are displayed properly regardless of scale.

For tracking purposes, link:https://issues.jenkins.io/browse/JENKINS-68251)[JENKINS-68251] is available and contains a link to a link:https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1PxlgT11_uDyTzPch8zWn3PDxLUIAab21ILmJ17zCzBk/edit#gid=1308179162[spreadsheet] listing plugins and their corresponding states to this update.

> *Make sure that you have used the Plugin Manager to update all plugins before and after updating Jenkins as failing to do so may result in errors.*

Author: Updated the spacing to be more paragraph appropriate, thanks for that @cari-mason , the bold message will be left as is, as the Plugin Manager is crucial to this working. If the plugins are not updated, they could end up with errors/breaks in their code.

> == Reporting Issues

Author: ```suggestion
== Reporting issues

```

> == Reporting Issues

Author: Good call Cari, thanks for the heads up on this!

> In the spreadsheet, there is a table labeled “Abandoned plugin, to be discussed”

Reviewer: Is there a title for the spreadsheet that can be added to make it more clear what you are referring to? And do you want the quoted text to be bold, instead? (Asking not suggesting, since this is a blog.)

Also, you are missing a period at the end of this sentence.

> image:images/post-images/2022-06-svg-migration/abandoned-plugin.png[abandoned plugin]

Reviewer: I am not sure how Jenkins docs does alt text, but please add that if you can to all images.

Author: updated alt text to be more specific of the image

> The table contains plugins that have not had any SCM activity for at least 5 years.

Reviewer: This is ok as written, but you could potentially be more direct and say: ... that have had no SCM activity for at least 5 years.

> When reviewing this table, if you locate any plugins that are currently used, please reach out to the plugin maintainer to perform this maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When reviewing this table, if you locate any plugins that are currently in use, please reach out to the plugin maintainer to perform this maintenance.

```

> If the maintainer has indeed abandoned the plugin, link:/doc/developer/plugin-governance/adopt-a-plugin/[adopting the plugin] yourself would be the next best solution.

Reviewer: Suggesting this since it is an assumption that it is their next best solution. Could be someone else is better for the job, for example. 

```suggestion
If the maintainer has abandoned the plugin, you can link:/doc/developer/plugin-governance/adopt-a-plugin/[adopting the plugin] and manage it yourself.

```

Author: Hey @cari-mason, so ultimately, if the plugin is abandoned, _someone_ would need to adopt it but this hypothetical user may be the only person using the plugin and therefore they would _have to_ adopt the plugin and update it to have things continue working properly. All the plugins are maintained outside of CloudBees so it's up to the community to do their part on this.

After adoption, use the instructions provided link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/views/icon-path-to-icon-class-migration/[here] to perform the update and make necessary changes to the plugin.

> When reporting plugin updates, please use the following information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When reporting plugin updates, please use the following information:

```
